Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Can you hear me. Oh.
Joshua Ward: Hear me
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yep, I can hear you. Can you hear me.
Joshua Ward: Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. How are you today.
Joshua Ward: I'm good. You
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good, very good. I wanted to hold on. Okay. Um, we're going to complete or your bio psychosocial today.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: usually takes about 30 minutes. It's not a long process. Are you okay with that. Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, hold on. I gotta adjust this really fast.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right. Okay. So the first question is, what brings you to bright heart and why now.
Joshua Ward: Right.
Joshua Ward: I'm like, I got to watch some programs as I wouldn't let using hearings is get out of prison.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How long ago.
Joshua Ward: Oh my god out I'm
Joshua Ward: Not last Monday, but Monday before last.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: How long were you in
Joshua Ward: Six years
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh wow, is it adjustment.
Joshua Ward: Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah yeah yeah doing okay with it with the adjustment.
Joshua Ward: A lot of anxiety, but like, other than that. I'm, I'm, I'm doing all right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good, good, good, good. Um, it's probably going to take a little while to get acclimated back you know into a regular routine on a day to day basis.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But whatever you do, don't give up, you know,
Oh no, just keep trying.
Joshua Ward: I got my kids and
Joshua Ward: My wife were doing real good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It doesn't get better than that. Right.
Doesn't
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so the next question on the bio psychosocial is can you tell me a little bit about your history with drugs and alcohol. What age was it that you first started using what was the substance and how did it progress to where you are now.
Joshua Ward: Or never really had a problem with anything other than other than heroin.
Joshua Ward: And I started using it when i was when i was when i was 21 I went to prison.
Joshua Ward: And like I used it, like is it what does that look at first was is that a boredom and then it just progressed into like I needed it.
Joshua Ward: And like you got to where I was using so much. I was using a lot
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Like how much
Joshua Ward: We got to was using, like, three grams a day.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And that was before you went to prison.
Joshua Ward: I was using in prison.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For how long
Joshua Ward: I've used I've used heroin since I was 21
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So every the whole time that you were in prison, you were using
Joshua Ward: Pretty much. There was times that I didn't, but for the most part. Yeah, okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so heroines are primary drug of choice. Correct.
Joshua Ward: Just okay
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You just got out of prison and and switched from what you were using in prison to Suboxone to help get you pull your life together.
Joshua Ward: Is that accurate.
Joshua Ward: This time in prison. Like I was doing good, like
Joshua Ward: A year before I got out, I got put into a an art program, which is a drug rehabilitation program and clean for the last year, I was in there.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, good.
Joshua Ward: I've been. I've been. Clean. I've been clean since I haven't used sense
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Ah, good, good, good. Congratulations, by the way.
Joshua Ward: I just got
Joshua Ward: A box down here, because there's more temptation out here than there, isn't there. You mean it's easier to get ahold of us a box in the
Joshua Ward: Good old over like it doesn't mean I don't even grave it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good. That's what Suboxone supposed to be for to help with cravings and use any pain any physical pain.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, and any past substance abuse treatment.
Joshua Ward: This to our depth in prison, this time.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And did. Were you able to complete that program or are we still in it when you discharge.
Joshua Ward: No I completed it.
Good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And any mental health diagnosis or treatment in the past.
Joshua Ward: No mo.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Past suicide attempts.
Joshua Ward: No man.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Have you ever struggled with suicide thoughts.
Joshua Ward: No.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Homicide attempts or thoughts.
Joshua Ward: Almost homicide.
Yes.
Joshua Ward: Well, it's like I have a real bad anger. Anger is anger problem. You mean, like, but I've got, like, as I've gotten older, like I've gotten
Joshua Ward: I've gotten moral more better a hold of it and I've been in prison. Like, I've done a lot of a lot of things in there that I have not proud of and a lot of things that I didn't want to do, but I had to do.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah yeah
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So is that a yes.
Joshua Ward: Yes. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Nothing current though.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Right. No, ma'am. Okay, any past or present self harm lights cutting or burning or anything like that.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: No, no, no. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, okay, good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Any ok the next part of it wants to know about your family dynamics that you grew up in wants to know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Whether or not your parents stay together your whole life, or if they divorced, where you adopted. How many siblings that did you have was their addiction or mental health and your family unit that kind of stuff.
Joshua Ward: Well, my I grew up. I grew up with the same mom and dad, my whole life. But like, why I never knew my real dad.
Joshua Ward: I guess you just take my
Joshua Ward: sperm donor like I never knew him but I might have said that, like he was my dad to me. I mean,
Joshua Ward: Like I grew up in the family like we grew up. I grew up on a ranch. And I did that, like,
Joshua Ward: And we want mom passed away is whenever my throat by like I mess it up and I went to prison. That's where my drug addiction kicked in. But as far as a drug addiction in my family goes your mom. My mom, my dad, drank.
Joshua Ward: Beer every day. But my mom. She didn't she didn't do drugs or nothing, my sister, my, my sister, Lisa, she was, she was an addict, Mr other markers and Eric whether that and I'm the youngest of seven kids.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, wow. Are you close with your other siblings.
Joshua Ward: Yes, ma'am.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Good. That's important to have that family connection, you know, if it's healthy for you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So the next piece of it wants to know about your school years wants to know.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What it was like for you in in school. If you struggled. Were you bullied.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Did you have a learning disability, did you graduate, that kind of stuff.
Joshua Ward: I wasn't bullied in school i i was i was going to attend. Like I had ADHD in school, like I was I created attention. And I guess you could say.
Joshua Ward: And like I wasn't real focused on my work and school so like I dropped out of school early, but I got my GED was in prison. This time, and I started, I did a few chords courses like I did a computer class.
Joshua Ward: Math classes post purchase follow up with that now that are bound to and finish like it's like it's something in college.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What would you study. If you were to go back to college right now.
Joshua Ward: I was like I was either wanting to go into welding or because I'm gonna start my own. I wanted to start my own like my own business, my own business. And like I was wanting to do like my last like five business.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Nice. That's a definitely a good long term goal, you know,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so any military background.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: No. No. Okay. Um, can you tell me about your legal history.
Joshua Ward: What do you mean by legal history.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And what I would
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What was the. How old were you when he first started getting in trouble with the law and how did it progress.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To now.
Well,
Joshua Ward: Whenever I was 19 when I first got in trouble. And it was for receiving stolen property and
Joshua Ward: I went to prison, and I got out my mom passed away and go back to prison for possession of a firearm and that's when I started using drugs.
Joshua Ward: And it just progressed from there. Like I when I went back to prison again for another for another gun charge. And then I went back to prison. Now I got caught with 112 pounds a week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And are you you're currently on probation or parole.
Joshua Ward: Role
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For how long
Joshua Ward: until November.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, that's not very far away.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: No man.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Excuse me, I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, I'm no military any financial stressors for you right at the moment.
Joshua Ward: Well yes it. No, because I right now I'm living with my sister and like I don't have no BILLS ARE NOTHING BUT I have my kids and everything. So like, and like as far as witches coven 19 like there's like a party no jobs, really. So
Yeah.
Joshua Ward: So that isn't really
Joshua Ward: And then I have an ankle monitor so I can, I have, I have to be home by six and afternoon so like, and I have stuff. I have to do for that too. So like I have to work around so much schedules to like getting a job is gonna be like, really hard.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah. Yeah, definitely.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That makes perfect sense. You know, you do have this whole mountain that you have to climb on to get out and do everything that they want you to do be on call for you is, you know, pay attention to your ankle monitor. I mean, there's a lot of stuff that that
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Maybe it's just an idea, but maybe it'd be a good time to check into getting some kind of
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: pursuing education online.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Might be a good time to check that out. That's
That's
Joshua Ward: Like I was gonna check into that, but I don't know if I can go down to the college and sign up for that now with everything going on because they will shut down.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But you can do it online.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So remember that.
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: You just go, you just check out you know the college that you are wanting to go to and see what they offer online. You can probably talk to somebody to and find out what options are available for you, you know, okay. But everything's online now. You know what I mean look at we're online.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Everything's online right now because of the you know the sickness widget. It's really was gearing towards that way. Anyways, but it was kind of a push this whole whole flu, you know, to get everybody in this format.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What, tell me, Josh. What are some of the things that you would like to work on while you're engaged with bright heart while you're in treatment that you didn't feel that you got while you were in treatment before
Joshua Ward: I would just like to keep whenever, whenever it's gonna take to keep to stay sober. Like what, like I'm willing to do whatever is in those days.
Joshua Ward: There is talking to somebody like you have somebody else like whatever's gonna take for me to do good, like I'm going to do it like
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, good.
Joshua Ward: Well, it sounds like what it's going to take. And I'm not sure I could right now. I'm taking one day at a time like I'm doing great. So
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's what we gotta do is take one day at a time. You know, it's a lot on your plate. When you
Joshua Ward: Haven't had no one, sir.
Good.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: When you got to get acclimated into this new life of yours too, you know. So that's going to be a little bit of an adjustment as well.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Have you thought about going to any kind of self help groups.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Support groups.
Joshua Ward: Like na na
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, or smart recovery or depends on your belief system.
Joshua Ward: I think there's some kind of group that I have to do on Fridays with with with this program. Yeah.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yep, that's one
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: But that's one day a week.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. And so what and this again is is just a suggestion, you know, it's not anything your recovery is yours to create the way that you it works for you, whatever that looks like. So know that piece. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um, but you because everything is geared online, you can go to meetings online. A na
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: smart recovery takes out the spiritual aspect of of Na, na, so they focus more on you know the cognitive approach on what you're thinking.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And how to change that and how to make decisions that are healthy for you, versus, you know, na, na say that mind, body, and spirit or connect connected, which you know mind body feelings are definitely connected
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So it just really is up to you and you just got to if you're interested in doing that, then I encourage you to explore them online because a lot of them are closed down from face to face.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And so, you know, definitely building some kind of support system for yourself is going to be a vital piece, you know, of being able to stay sober. So letting you know that. Okay.
Joshua Ward: Like what I like what I what I have to go to another doctor to like get on something for anxiety or when I just go through the you guys to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, you talked about
Joshua Ward: Like sometimes I get like really really overwhelmed them like a
Joshua Ward: Yeah.
Joshua Ward: Like, I don't know. I don't know if it's because I've been locked up and like, like I wasn't in like a minimum security that goes is no higher security level prison.
Joshua Ward: And I went from being in a sale and being around already anybody to be in around four kids, and three adults all at once. Yeah, I mean, it's like even even like messing with the phone like I get anxiety real bad. I mean,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, it's a lot, it's a lot to take on as soon as you get out of, out of such a controlled environment. So you know what I would encourage you to do is talk to the doctor that you're working with, with bright heart and who what Dr. Are you working with
Joshua Ward: I'm not sure if his name. I don't know papers in the other room, I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Your group on Friday, is it 11 o'clock.
Joshua Ward: I believe so, yes.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So that's Dr. PACHTER
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Dr. David PACHTER is his name. And on Friday, he'll do because I'm in group with you on Friday.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What you want to do is you want to, when you do it, you'll do what's called a medical check in and the beginning of group.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And he'll ask if you're having any side effects from your the medication that you're on and you tell him about your anxiety and you tell him you know the struggles that you're having
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And asked him what your options are to help with that. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. And so between him and working with me, we should be able to build up your coping skill toolbox.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: To be able to work on controlling your anxiety helping with your anxiety.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And managing it. Okay.
Joshua Ward: Okay, you don't you don't have a number that was a call tomorrow. Do you
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, hold on, let me
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Let me ask for it. I don't know what off the top of my head.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Hold on.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It'll take a second for them to answer me, but I just asked for. I know it's a 408 number
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: What number did you call to check in with me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: For today.
Joshua Ward: 661-319-1979
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Know the number that you called. Did you call a phone number first
Joshua Ward: Oh no, they have to go. I did the same thing as I just did. Now, it was, it was a 408 number
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, that's the number that you're going to call to check in for group to
Joshua Ward: Okay, do I like call them 30 minutes ahead of that, like, so I call him at 1030 to
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: 11 yes
Okay.
Joshua Ward: All right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Um,
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yeah, because there are surveys that you're going to do.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: All right. Um, and it's important
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That you do them because it really kind of monitors where you're at, as far as anxiety as far as your depression as far as any kind of use, as far as how well the medication is doing for you. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so it's important that you do that.
Joshua Ward: So I called him like
Should I call them at like 10 1030
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I hope, hold on regular
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: I'm
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, sorry I'm waiting for them to answer me back. But if you already had that 408 number
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That's the number that you call 30 okay 30 minutes before group and then you'll be asked to do some surveys answer you know some questions so that they can monitor to you and then they'll give you that number, like what they gave you today to come into me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And and for group and every week. That number will change. So it'll be a different one. Every time you check in. But you always want to go through the clinic. It's called the virtual clinic. So you always want to go through the clinic before checking in.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Here's why I have that number.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, they're out there. I'm sorry, they're talking to me.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay. Is there anything that I haven't asked you that you think is important that we know about you.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so we will meet up again tomorrow and group. Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: And we will schedule you and I will schedule weekly interview in our individual sessions as well to touch base to see to see what's working in your recovery. What's not working in your recovery what it is that we can
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Utilize and help you to build your we call it
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: We call it a
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: wellness check. But we want to build up a toolbox. Right.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: So that when your anxiety starts going high or your depression goes low or when you feeling really low.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Or really overwhelmed that we can we can talk it through and give you alternatives, you know, besides going out and using okay
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That sounds like a plan.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes, ma'am. Okay. And you could call me Becca, or you can call me, Rebecca, whichever you know
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It's totally okay. I'm going to call you Joshua and I'm going to call you Josh. Is that okay
Joshua Ward: That's perfectly fine.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Oh, don't
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Don't call me late for dinner. Is there anything else that you want to tell me about yourself.
Joshua Ward: No, ma'am, I believe that's it.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so tomorrow at group, I will have an appointment. Tell me what date and time works best for you.
Joshua Ward: Right now, like
Joshua Ward: Anytime is good because like I'm not working or anything like I have to, I have to call in every morning about for my us at 730 and after being done by at to have them done by 12 o'clock so
Joshua Ward: Like, but I haven't had that like I call it a warning, but I haven't had to take one yet. So I don't know, but like
Joshua Ward: That's the only thing that could pop up for me is like my you a ticket. Anyway, but usually they have to be done by as well. So, like, I'll be done by the end, but with him but well
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, so it would
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: It would be better for you to have an appointment in the afternoon.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, I can arrange that. Definitely. I need to kind of review my calendar and find a time in the afternoon.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: That will work. And so tomorrow, I'll give you a time for it and we'll start meeting every week and build up a treatment plan and figure out, you know, things that you want to work on.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Things that you want to be able to deal with better and how can we get there. Okay, that sounds like a plan.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Yes, ma'am. Okay, I'm gonna let you go. Josh, and it's nice meeting you and I will see you in group tomorrow. Okay.
Joshua Ward: Okay, thank you. Have a good
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: day. You too. You have an awesome weekend weekend. I'll see you tomorrow.
Joshua Ward: Okay.
Rebecca Antoinette Evans: Okay, by Josh